README.md, before:

# CS128H-Group-Project

GROUP NAME: TO BE DETERMINED

Group member 1 name: Jiya Patidar
Group member 1 net id: jiya2
Group member 2 name: Michael Reeve
Group member 2 net id: mreeve2
Group member 3 name: Shanav Bagga
Group member 3 net id: svbagga2
Group member 4 name: Howard Ding
Group member 4 net id: howardd2

Project description: We'll create an NLP algorithm that predicts the sentiments of the user input using the BERT language model. Additionally, we'll use tokenization or classification to predict specific sentiments than the generic positive, negative, and neutral.

Goals: 
1. Understand and develop a rust-bert algorithm
2. Create the algorithm with at least an accuracy rate of 75%

We've chosen to work on this project as we are all interested in NLP and sentiment analysis. Additionally, rust "enables the development of end to end deep-learning pipelines" (retrieved from https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/comments/fey8n6/p_rust_native_language_models_and_nlp_pipelines/).

Technical Overview:

Checkpoint 1: Creating the backend of the project, i.e., the NLP algorithm with BERT language model and achieving an accuracy rate of atleast 40%.
Checkpoint 2: Improving the accuracy of the algorithm. Creating a UI in rust. Exploring libraries to represent the predictions graphically.

Possible Challenges:
1. familiarize ourselves with the different Rust packages and libraries required to implement our algorithm
2.  Create a basic UI in rust
3.  Working with rust-bert module
4.  Understanding the working of the BERT language model.
5.  Finding an accurate dataset


References:
https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/comments/fey8n6/p_rust_native_language_models_and_nlp_pipelines/
https://github.com/guillaume-be/rust-bert
https://towardsdatascience.com/sentiment-analysis-in-10-minutes-with-bert-and-hugging-face-294e8a04b671

Hello, this is a test.

Commit message:

Checkpoint 1, contains the logic behind our algorithm

README.md, after:

# CS128H-Group-Project

GROUP NAME: TO BE DETERMINED

Group member 1 name: Jiya Patidar
Group member 1 net id: jiya2
Group member 2 name: Michael Reeve
Group member 2 net id: mreeve2
Group member 3 name: Shanav Bagga
Group member 3 net id: svbagga2
Group member 4 name: Howard Ding
Group member 4 net id: howardd2

Project description: We'll create an NLP algorithm that predicts the sentiments of the user input using the BERT language model. Additionally, we'll use tokenization or classification to predict specific sentiments than the generic positive, negative, and neutral.

Goals: 
1. Understand and develop a rust-bert algorithm
2. Create the algorithm with at least an accuracy rate of 75%

We've chosen to work on this project as we are all interested in NLP and sentiment analysis. Additionally, rust "enables the development of end to end deep-learning pipelines" (retrieved from https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/comments/fey8n6/p_rust_native_language_models_and_nlp_pipelines/).

Technical Overview:
1. Write down the logic in pseudocode for the algorithm
2. explore the rust bert algorithm
Checkpoint 1: Write down the logic in pseudocode for the algorithm, explore the rust bert algorithm
Checkpoint 2: Creating the backend of the project, i.e., the NLP algorithm with BERT language model and achieving an accuracy rate of at least 75%. Creating a UI in rust. Exploring libraries to represent the predictions graphically.

Possible Challenges:
1. familiarize ourselves with the different Rust packages and libraries required to implement our algorithm
2.  Create a basic UI in rust
3.  Working with rust-bert module
4.  Understanding the working of the BERT language model.
5.  Finding an accurate dataset


References:
https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/comments/fey8n6/p_rust_native_language_models_and_nlp_pipelines/
https://github.com/guillaume-be/rust-bert
https://towardsdatascience.com/sentiment-analysis-in-10-minutes-with-bert-and-hugging-face-294e8a04b671
